Guil hey what's up the books in the
background are finally gonna change now
I've got some of my Chinese handwriting
on the table for the first time in I
don't know year-and-a-half I wrote that
out in my first week of classes here I
remember sitting down in a vegan
restaurant and writing that out as
rapidly as I could
that's just like hi my name is I think
it says I want to go back and study in
Taiwan which was not true at the time
and is still not true down I never wake
up in the morning and wish I was back in
Taiwan mmm but that would be the topic
for another video umm I got an email
from another youtuber called the white
pariah great name for a channel she is
open about the fact that she's diagnosed
with serious mental disorders serious
mental health problems that's a large
part of what she talks but on her
channel she is also vegan and she says
to me that she has a lot of problems
with people not taking her veganism
seriously with not taking her reasons
for being vegan seriously etc because
she's diagnosed with serious mental
health problems for me this brings up a
couple of different things I think are
worth chatting about worth sharing with
my YouTube audience worth talking about
whatever um one is that we have to be
really honest with ourselves about what
we mean by being taken seriously in your
own cultural context and taking into
account who you are where you are and
who you're talking to what do you really
mean by being taken seriously if
veganism just comes up in passing at the
workplace at a pub at a nightclub at the
library like if I'm on university campus
at a museum wherever it is what really
do you mean by being taken seriously
what do you actually expect from people
in your culture and you've got to be
really honest with yourself and really
self-critical about those expectations
if I meet a guy this happened to me once
I met a guy who was spending a lot of
his time and money on these um these
extreme sports
that are similar to parachuting but it's
not parachuting you jump off a cliff and
stuff like that and you know like I'm
looking at him and I'm thinking what the
hell is wrong with you what kind of a
would spend his time and money on
that as opposed to whatever going and
helping poor people dying of AIDS and
Cambodia and all the ridiculous things I
would do with my time and money if I had
time or money oh that's got a guy am uh
now if I'd said that diem if I'd said
you know I think you're a piece of
garbage because this is what you do with
your time and money given what what's
going on planet Earth that guy also ate
meat and smoke cigarettes and whatever I
mean you know a lot of things he could
change in his life he would be in a
position to be very offended and you
know here's this question again what
does it mean to be taken seriously if
someone tells me they're into these
extreme sports similar to parachuting
should I take them seriously why would I
you know in that context where it's I
didn't I didn't choose to go to a
lecture about parachuting it's just a
surprise just come up the people you're
talking to in your daily life they did
not buy tickets to go to an animal
rights conference they didn't decide in
advance this is something I'm interested
in learning more about
I'm gonna go hear a lecture about
veganism yes so again this is another
difference between YouTube versus real
life so it is really important to be
honest there self self-critical about
what level of respect are you looking
for what does being taken seriously mean
to you and I mean for that guy I didn't
you know I didn't take it up with him in
some sense I think he does have the
right to be taken seriously like as an
athlete in terms of this sport or this
hobby whatever you want to call it I
think he has the right to be respected
have them say oh oh that's interesting
or whatever other polite nonsense people
say in these situations oh good for you
I'm glad to hear someone is you know
pushing the limits of how to jump off a
cliff with a folded up plastic parachute
whatever it is you people
are you you know he didn't sign up to be
disrespected by me or cross-examined by
me and obviously if you're watching this
you're vegan you you've had it both ways
you've had people cross examine you and
disrespect you et cetera and vice versa
you've probably once in a while lost
your temper temper and cross examine
people or disrespected them I don't know
you meet a friend for lunch and they're
eating veal in front of you or whatever
it is you know or someone you know who
says there's vegan they're vegan just
bought a leather couch you say what the
hell you're supposed to be doing for
whatever reason in whatever circumstance
you probably both have had the
experience of people disrespecting you
and of you being the one disrespecting
others it happens it's part of life on
earth don't beat yourself up too much
from it but I mean we all got to try to
learn from these experiences but the
other big issue for me this this
question of this letter from from my
prior brings up is um look if people
disrespect you and if people don't take
you seriously for one obvious issue in
your life and you know very
understandably some women like if you're
a small cute woman a lot of people will
not take you seriously just for that
reason not that it's a bad thing
I had a small cute girlfriend and in
some ways her views of the world were
really warped by that she was really
used to I mean growing up just being
kind of small and cute she was really
used to people making excuses for her
both not taking her seriously when she
wanted to be can seriously but also she
was not being taken seriously when she
did or said something wrong you know she
wasn't being held accountable for
anything she did as if she's still a
child you know she's a fully grown adult
whatever she's over 25 she's just small
and cute and people keep making shoes
for so there are all kinds of things
that can shape and it's gonna be very
different in one culture versus another
it's gonna be different in Japan versus
China versus Germany versus France
versus Canada the
but if it's not one thing it's another
in many cases what really frames the
conversations you're having is that
you're talking to people who almost
instinctually want to confront you want
to challenge you want to see what you're
made of want to see if you have rational
reasons behind the things you believe or
not and if it wasn't veganism they test
you on something else and the other hand
if it's the same topic if it is veganism
and they're not they're not taking you
seriously because you're a female well
if you were male maybe it would be
because you have long hair and if it
wasn't cuz you have long hair it's
because you're bald and if it was
because your balls because you're fat
and if it's not because you're fat it's
because you're too pale you know I mean
there are so many reasons why these
people can challenge you but I think
what you have to recognize is they are
looking for any reason to challenge you
and you've got to be able to detach
those things and respond to the
substance and the motivation and not be
hung up on the fact that they happen to
be dismissing you or not taking you
seriously for whatever the particular
reason is I've managed to get seven
minutes into this video without
mentioning Cambodia but here it comes
um you'd think I missed Cambodia and I
don't when I was in Yunnan China I ran
into a guy who was actually a reasonably
famous author he was famous for people
interested in that kind of history
culture what-have-you he'd written
numerous books on the region and I was
mentioning to him that my future
interest at that time I was planning to
move to Cambodia and I'd visited there
before and he said to me with great
exasperation that he never wanted to go
back to Cambodia even though he was very
much involved in UN and laws Thailand
etc right next door and I was interested
to hear his reasons why so I was Jeevan
bald as I as I still AM I've been shaved
my head since I was a teenager it's been
a regular part of my life for a long
long time and he complained to me about
the way people would mistreat him
challenged him disrespect him and sold
him because he had long hair when he was
in Cambodia this is an aspect of
Cambodian culture
he's not wrong I know what he's talking
about and I know some of the reasons
behind it
Cambodia is pretty accepting of
transgender people it's not as accepting
of transgender people as Thailand Laos
but compared to Indonesia or Malaysia
Cambodia is still on the list of the
most accepting places in the world for
transgendered people although not to the
same extent as Thailand
but if you're a heterosexual man with
long hair that's what they can't really
accept because from their perspective if
you're a man with long hair it's because
sometimes you dress up on weekends you
you like to be a cross-gender Jed either
a transgender person or a cross gendered
person of some kind but I said to him in
all honesty and this is Socratic method
but it's weird to me I mean this guy I
guess I guess he's fundamentally just
not that bright because it's the most
obvious thing but I asked him do you
really think those same people wouldn't
be challenging you wouldn't be insulting
you wouldn't be testing you if instead
you shaved your head and you went back
to Cambodia tomorrow now he was stunned
he had just never thought about it but I
said to a novice I could speak from
experience you know if you take away the
excuse the pretext these people have for
challenging you for disrespecting you
for not taking you seriously for asking
you to prove yourself before you're
taken seriously then they will find
something else this is what frames the
situation the fundamental thing is
they're testing you they're wanting you
to prove that you should be taken
seriously and if it's not your hair and
it's not your gender and it's not your
job it's not your poverty you know
people disrespect me because I'm poor
I've been poor all my adult life you
know people will find some reason to
challenge you or people wonder if you're
a phony or if you really know your stuff
etc if he went back shaven bold these
people would still be testing him it
just wouldn't be the hair anymore
it would be something else